.TH a2crd 1 "August 2010" "Utilities"
.SH NAME
a2crd \- attempts the conversion of lyrics file into chordii input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B a2crd
[\fIOPTIONS\fP] [\fIFILE\fP...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B a2crd
reads the lyrics of one songs from a file, and attempts to produce a output
suitable for \fBchordii\fP. Chord names can appear above or below the lyrics.
\fBa2crd\fP will embed those names into the lyrics.

The FAQ list of alt.guitar documents the way a ascii file should look, but this
format is not recognized by everyone, or fully enforced. Thus, it is impossible
to modify \fBchordii\fP itself to read *any* type of ascii input and produce
good result. \fBa2crd\fP tries its best to to do the tedious conversion job.

\fBa2crd\fP attempts to recognize mail/news headers, and comments them out. It
preserves as is any line starting with a '{', which would indicates a
\fBchordii\fP command. It also preserves any lines starting with a '#'.

\fBa2crd\fP prepends to the output the content of a file called
.nh
$HOME/.a2crdsig,
.hy 1
if it exists.

The first line that is not a comment is assumed to be the title of the
song. The nest lines until a blank one are assumed to be subtitles.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-r \fIRATIO\fP
Sets the threshold for chordii line recognition. \fBa2crd\fP looks at every
line. If the ratio ( space_characters / non-space_characters) is
greater than \fIRATIO\fP, the line will be recognized as a \fBchordii\fP line,
and its content will be merge with the next available text line. The
\fIRATIO\fP has a initial value of 1. It is defined as a floating precision
value.
.TP 8
.B \-D
Prints debugging information. For programmers only.
.TP 8
.B \-o \fIFILE\fP
Sends output to \fIFILE\fP.
.TP 8
.SH See Also
\fBchordii\fP(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C)2008 The Chordii Project
.br
Copyright (C)1992 by Martin Leclerc and Mario Dorion
.SH AUTHORS
.MT Martin.Leclerc@Sun.COM
Martin Leclerc
.ME
*** DEFUNCT ***
